# Ugnis

Ugnis is a fully declarative way to write web applications, a replacement for React+Redux/Elm where instead of writing code you use a visual editor.

WARNING: Ugnis is a proof of concept. We do not recommend relying on it before it reaches 1.0v.

Ugnis consist of three parts:
  - your application as a JSON file.
  - a runtime that interprets your JSON and mounts it on a provided html node.
  - Ugnis visual editor because you wouldn't want to write JSON by hand.

```
  import ugnis from 'ugnis'

  const app = ugnis(json)
```

If you are integrating Ugnis into an existing app, you can interact by sending and listening to events:

```
 app.emitEvent(eventName, data, nativeEvent)

 app.addListener((eventName, data, nativeEvent, previousState, currentState, mutations)=>{

 })
```

Goals (must be achieved before releasing 1.0v)
  - zero configuration, use the web tool to build your app json or use it locally with 'npm install ugnis'
  - simple, make right things easy to do.
  - play nice with existing apps, can be introduced in small steps.
  - powerful enough to write any application, Ugnis is written with Ugnis itself
  - scalable for humans - show connections between state, events and view nodes,
        no need to go through thousands of line of code to build the mental mode, no need to grep action names.
  - scalable for machines - application splitting by default
  - server side rendering
  - typesafe - there should be no runtime errors
  - speed - Ugnis knows how view nodes are connected with the state, there is no need for virtual dom

Problems with javascript:
  - too many edge cases
  - multiple ways to do the same thing
  - functional programming is hard to read and understand

Problems with application building:
  - dataflow is hard to track
  - defining components is verbose
  
ugnis-script goals:
  - be a close subset of javascript - reduce clutter and edge cases
  - make functional programming more readable
  - make dataflow easy to understand and visualize
  - typesafety
  - no magic
  - be the best interface for html, webgl and node programming

ugnis-script details:
  - typesafety without users specifying types
  - every value is a constant
  - every value is reactive
  - there are no keywords

ideas
    all values are reactive
    no keywords (all keywords are generated by imported modules)
    one file only

#TODO:
Docs:
  - more examples
  - definitions

UX improvements:
  -

Features:
  - fetch
  - import components
  - animations and timers

Performance
  - remove virtual dom, because we know how components use state, we don't need virtual dom.
  - tail call optimisation